The other kind of piece that we
can use is create Action Sibling.
So now we're going to talk
about create Reducer.
Which is if you saw on that slice before,
how I just had the properties on that
slice, and you want to just pull that
piece as well, you can have that too.
It's all yours and mix and
match whatever you want.
Regular actions are working
to create reducer,
create actions will work
with a regular reducer.
It all can work together for you.
So, what would it look like if I just
want to make a brand new reducer?
So we've got this other idea of.
Create reducer.
I believe I pulled that in.
Yep, go create reducer and
we'll just say like count reducer.
So it's not the same counter reducer.
Some it's a rare time where the typo is
a better choice than what I said out loud.
So we'll go with it.
And if you look immediately like it takes
some of the things that we should have
seen from that slice that we saw earlier
because that again, like we're pulling
apart, a slice to figure out what
all the component pieces are here.
And so we've got this.
It takes some kind of initial
state if we look at it.
And these are properties on an object.
So before you just saw me kind of use
that shorthand in JavaScript, but
I could say initial state.
And it's still angry with me because it's
like you need to give me a few more things
here and so count reducer as well and
we need to we give it this function
This function is actually it's
actually just an argument for
the initial state here, sorry.
This function is a little bit interesting.
It's a function that takes
this idea of a builder.
>> So
the first argument is always the reducer.
>> The first arguments
the initial state Yep.
Exactly that slice thing that you saw
before where we had an object with keys.
You can also technically do it here.
The reason that I would caution against
it is when you do it in a slice,
you have like, the slice itself knows
it's the one making the actions So
it can wire up all the types for you.
When you use create reducer, like this
notation is preferred because it will
give you better TypeScript support
without really having to do anything.
Right?
And so if you like the one that we saw on
the slice where I just had like add task
as a key, remove task as a key.
You can do that, and I guess maybe if
you're like, you will not, whether it's
the helpful hints in your code or
whatever, you will not get the same help.
So I would recommend that you do this one.
And so this builder is simply
has,let's take a look at it.
I love the fact that my code
editor will give me the answers.
Add case, add default case and
add matcher.
Let's talk about them an order add case is
if you've ever used a switch statement, or
if you have ever done what I do, which
is like as you saw before, I literally
scroll down and see what I do which is
a series of if statements with returns.
That is one of those cases, right?
And then default case is what
you can guess it is probably,
the thing at the bottom where
you either return state, and
you don't actually have to define this.
This is literally if you actually
want to catch the default You don't
have to protect yourself
against this one at this point.
This is now if you want to.
Because previously,
you had to always handle the default case
because it was just a JavaScript function.
And if you did not return state
in some way, shape, or form, or
do something with it,
your function would return undefined.
You would set the state to undefined.
Here, because we have this builder
abstraction, that's all going to get taken
care of for you, so
you don't worry about silly mistake.
Which, to be clear, like three weeks ago,
not this last sprint, but
the one before, at least 20 minutes
of my life down the toilet.
Right this will solve you
save you from that, right?
>> So false case if you
don't use it as optional,
so it'll just automatically
do the initial state for you.
You don't do that.
>> Exactly It'll give you like, it'll be
like, I don't do anything with this one.
Right, which is no,
almost always what you want, right?
Because Redux itself is so low level.
You don't get that because it's
just a JavaScript function.
Because you have a little
bit more abstraction, right?
This will solve that for you.
Awesome.
So we've got that in place and
so we can say ad case.
And what's really cool about this is
we handed just one of those action
creators so I can say increment and like.
Now this is one that will
catch it on increment, right?
And we give it the state and the action.
I'll move fully write this out
as a arrow notation function.
Check this out, automatically typed.
There's the like, the weird thing
that I'm going to talk about.
Automatically typed in
here automatically typed.
Because you gave it the action creator.
You pass this in as the first argument
that increment action critically made
the previous exercise.
And so it's like, Yo, let me look at
the types that this thing produces.
Cool, core I know what the action that
comes out of this action creator is
the same way we wrote that
return value earlier.
It's looking at the same return value,
knows what the shape of the type of
the action is, and
has that ready to go for you.
And looked at the shape
of the initial state and
just said, that's clearly what this is.
Ready to rock and roll.
Now wait for it, I promise you that
I am not about to write a bug.
Do you trust me?
Okay, so all I'm going to do is say,
no conditional in this case,
I'm just going to say,
I'm just going to increment that.
I'm just going to mutate it.
That key on the object.
And that is valid, and that works.
I just, and that is scoped to
only the state of this producer.
Write correctly I can mutate
things on this object.
You're like I can't use I'm not
supposed to use mutable state.
This is your library called Emmer immer is
made by the same person created mob X, and
what it is doing is it gave you a, if you
saw before if we hovered over the state,
it's called writable draft, right?
And so basically it gave you
a copy of the current state.
And it's like mutate this
thing as much as you want.
Push things onto the arrays.
Pop things off, place them even,
see if you remember syntax place.
Do all those of things.
Even if you're deeply nested object,
you can find that key,
switch the deeply nested value
to a different value and
it will do all the readable
operations on your behalf, right?
So your objects are still readable, But
you can pretend that they're mutable.
And that like, lie to yourself will work
which a lot of times if you in previous
chats, we have talked about the fact that
like having deeply nested data in like
most react applications and
Redux applications,
is an anti pattern because you spread
operator your way down your way back out.
Right but sometimes we live in code
bases where like that ship has
already sailed and
this is the world that we live in right so
this is then a pattern that will then
save you because that is the most error
prone code right and even unit
testing that This is doable, right?
If you got some time,
because then you've got to still make
sure you got to write your unit test.
Right, who tests the unit tests?
Right so in this case, like having
this abstraction here with Emmer,
which is just a library, again, you can
use any of these things separately, right?
I use them all the time.
Like just in a regular use reducer,
what have you.
We'll go ahead and
make your code seem mutable but
actually be completely mutable.
And you'll notice I didn't have to return
anything from this function either, right?
So all those edge cases and errors
are taken care of for me and handled and
I don't necessarily
have to worry about it.